# Project-3-Medical-Laboratory-Database-Analysis
This database was specifically designed for a medical laboratory, and the data it contains was generated using fake information obtained from  https://www.mockaroo.com/ to suit the needs of this project.

The analysis of this Medical Laboratory Databasewill be divided into two sections
The first section will focus on utilizing the database to enhance internal organizational operations (LAB) and will be answering the following questions:

Who is the EMPOLYEE (PHLEBOTOMIST) OF THE YEAR?
How was his performance over this year?

while the second section will highlight its relevance for external audiences and will be answering the following questions:

Which state had the highest number of uninsured patients ?
Which state had the highest number of COVID-19 cases in 2023 ?
What is the infection rate between different genders?
What is the infection rate among different age groups ?

I'll be using Jupyter Notebook software to work on this project, along with the following libraries: 
sqlite3: to interact with the databases and query data . 
pandas: for data manipulation, analysis, and handling structured data. 
seaborn: to create statistical data visualizations to explore patterns and relationships in the data. 
matplotlib: to create various types of plots and charts to visualize data. 
folium: to create interactive maps.
Presentation was created using powerpoint and voice where generated by text to speech tool from https://elevenlabs.io/

This repository contains: 
LAB.ipnb   Jupyter Notebook containing the python code used 
LABdb.db   Database used to collect the data and perform the analysis  
Presentation2.mp4  
Summary 
README.md
